Rework Migrate section into Import and connect (#4323)
timescale/docs: migrate/livesync-for-s3.md

---

> title: Connect S3 to Tiger Cloud

Reviewer: Connect an S3 data source to your service

import PrereqCloud from "versionContent/_partials/_prereqs-cloud-only.mdx";
import EarlyAccessNoRelease from "versionContent/_partials/_early_access.mdx";

> # Connect S3 to $CLOUD_LONG

Reviewer: Connect an S3 data source to your $SERVICE_SHORT

    - Watch the S3 bucket for new files and import them automatically. It runs on a configurable schedule and tracks processed files.
    - For large backlogs, check every minute until caught up. 

* Sync data from multiple file formats:
    - CSV: check for compression in GZ and ZIP format, then process using [timescaledb-parallel-copy][parallel-copy].
    - Parquet: convert to CSV, then process using [timescaledb-parallel-copy][parallel-copy].

* The $S3_CONNECTOR offers an option to enable a [hypertable][about-hypertables] during the file-to-table schema mapping setup. You can enable [columnstore][compression] and [continuous aggregates][caggs] through the SQL editor once the connector has started running.

* The connector offers a default 1-minute polling interval. This means that $CLOUD_LONG checks the S3 source every minute for new data. You can customize this interval by setting up a cron expression.

The $S3_CONNECTOR continuously imports data from an Amazon S3 bucket into your database. It monitors your S3 bucket for new files matching a specified pattern and automatically imports them into your designated database table.

> **Note**: The connector currently only syncs existing and new files—it does not support updating or deleting records based on updates and deletes from S3 to tables in a $SERVICE_LONG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: the connector currently only syncs existing and new files—it does not support updating or deleting records based on updates and deletes from S3 to tables in a $SERVICE_LONG.
```

> <EarlyAccessNoRelease />: the source S3 connector is not supported for production use. If you have any questions or feedback, talk to us in <a href="https://app.slack.com/client/T4GT3N2JK/C086NU9EZ88">#livesync in the TigerData Community</a>.

Reviewer: this source

1. **Connect to your $SERVICE_LONG**

   In [$CONSOLE][portal-ops-mode], select the $SERVICE_SHORT to sync live data to.

1. **Connect the source S3 bucket to the target $SERVICE_SHORT**

   ![Connect Tiger Cloud to S3 bucket](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tiger-cloud-console/s3-connector-tiger-cloud.png)

   1. Click `Connectors` > `Amazon S3`.

>    1. Set the name for the new connector by clicking the pencil icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Click the pencil icon, then set the name for the new connector.
```

   
      For instruction on creating the IAM role to connect your S3 bucket, click `Learn how`. $CONSOLE connects to the source bucket.
   1. In `Define files to sync`, choose the `File type` and set the `Glob pattern`.
   
      Use the following patterns:
      - `<folder name>/*`: match all files in a folder. Also, any pattern ending with `/` is treated as  `/*`.
      - `<folder name>/**`: match all recursively.
      - `<folder name>/**/*.csv`: match a specific file type.
      
      The $S3_CONNECTOR uses prefix filters where possible, place patterns carefully at the end of your glob expression.
      AWS S3 doesn't support complex filtering. If your expression filters too many files, the list operation may time out.
      
   1. Click the search icon. You see the files to sync. Click `Continue`.

1. **Optimize the data to synchronize in hypertables**

   ![S3 connector table selection](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tiger-cloud-console/tiger-cloud-s3-connector-create-tables.png)

   $CONSOLE checks the file schema and, if possible, suggests the column to use as the time dimension in a 
   [hypertable][about-hypertables].
   

>    1. Choose to create a new table or ingest into an existing one.

Reviewer: Use the `names in the UI` please
